update: DGPV2 migration guide (#4025)
Kotlin/dokka: docs/topics/dokka-migration.md

Ensure that your project meets the minimum version requirements:

| **Tool**                                                                          | **Version**   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| [Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/upgrading_version_8.html)      | 7.6 or higher |
| [Android Gradle plugin](https://developer.android.com/build/agp-upgrade-assistant) | 7.0 or higher |
| [Kotlin Gradle plugin](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/gradle-configure-project.html) | 1.9 or higher |

### Enable the new Dokka Gradle plugin

Update the Dokka version to 2.0.0 in the `plugins {}` block of your project’s `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
plugins {
    kotlin("jvm") version "2.1.10"
    id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.0.0"
}
```

Alternatively,
you can use [version catalog](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/platforms.html#sub:version-catalog)
to enable the Dokka Gradle plugin v2.

> > By default, DGP v2 generates HTML documentation. To generate Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc formats,

Author: I applied your suggestion in the first part of the sentence. However, I kept it as "appropriate plugins" because the HTML and the Javadoc are different ones.

> > By default, the DGP v2 generates HTML documentation. To generate Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc formats,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> By default, DGP v2 generates HTML documentation. To generate Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc formats,
```

minor grammar suggestion

                dss.sourceLink {
                    it.localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
                    it.remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
                    it.remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

Since the source link configuration has [changed](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/upgrading_version_8.html#deprecated_invalid_url_decoding),
use the `URI` class instead of `URL` to specify the remote URL.

Configuration in DGP v1:

```kotlin
remoteUrl.set(URL("https://github.com/your-repo"))
```

Configuration in DGP v2:

```kotlin
remoteUrl.set(URI("https://github.com/your-repo"))

// or

remoteUrl("https://github.com/your-repo")
```

Additionally, DGP v2 has two [utility functions](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/blob/220922378e6c68eb148fda2ec80528a1b81478c9/dokka-runners/dokka-gradle-plugin/src/main/kotlin/engine/parameters/DokkaSourceLinkSpec.kt#L82-L96)
for setting the URL:

```kotlin
fun remoteUrl(@Language("http-url-reference") value: String): Unit =
    remoteUrl.set(URI(value))

// and

fun remoteUrl(value: Provider<String>): Unit =
    remoteUrl.set(value.map(::URI))
```

> #### External documentation links configuration

Reviewer 2: Do we need configuration here? for the rest of the titles we only use titles like: "source links"

> Register external documentation links using the `register()` method to define each link.

Reviewer 2: Should we use `register()` function here instead of method? (not 100% sure - I know that in the docs we usually refer to these as functions because Kotlin doesn't have methods but in this context it might not apply)

Author: Thanks! As "method" is the term used in Gradle's docs, I'll leave it.

> The `externalDocumentationLinks` API uses this method aligning with Gradle DSL conventions.

Reviewer 2: same comment here about function vs method

}
```

New configuration:

```kotlin
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html {
        outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
        includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
    }
}
```

### Configure Dokka plugins

Configuring built-in Dokka plugins with JSON has been deprecated in favor of a type-safe DSL. This change improves compatibility 
with Gradle's incremental build system and improves task input tracking.

Previous configuration:

In DGP v1, Dokka plugins were configured manually using JSON. This approach caused issues with [registering task inputs](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/incremental_build.html) 
for Gradle up-to-date checks.

Here is an example of the deprecated JSON-based configuration for the [Dokka Versioning plugin](https://kotl.in/dokka-versioning-plugin):

```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule {
    pluginsMapConfiguration.set(
        mapOf(
            "org.jetbrains.dokka.versioning.VersioningPlugin" to """
                { "version": "1.2", "olderVersionsDir": "$projectDir/dokka-docs" }
                """.trimIndent()
        )
    )
}
```

New configuration:

> DGP v2 replaces the JSON-based configuration with a type-safe DSL that is compatible with incremental builds.

Reviewer 3: minor: we could additionally place a link to a versioning example here—https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/examples/gradle-v2/versioning-multimodule-example

```kotlin
fun documentedVisibilities(vararg visibilities: VisibilityModifier): Unit =
    documentedVisibilities.set(visibilities.asList()) 
```

#### Source links

Allow users to navigate from the generated documentation to the corresponding source code in a remote repository. 
To configure source links, use the `dokkaSourceSets.main{}` block.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
    tasks.withType<DokkaTask>().configureEach {
    dokkaSourceSets {
        named("main") {
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(URL("https://github.com/your-repo"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
            }
        }
    }
}
```

New configuration:

```kotlin
    dokka {
    moduleName.set("Project Name")
    dokkaSourceSets.main {
        includes.from("README.md")
        sourceLink {
            localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))

>             remoteUrl("https://github.com/your-repo")

Reviewer 4: For consistency (`set` in all properties), maybe we could use `remoteUrl.set(URI("https://github.com/your-repo"))`.

        }
    }
}
```

Given that the source link configuration has [changed](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/upgrading_version_8.html#deprecated_invalid_url_decoding), the remote URL is now specified using the `URI` class instead of the `URL` class.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
remoteUrl.set(URL("https://github.com/your-repo"))
```
  
New configuration:

```kotlin
remoteUrl.set(URI("https://github.com/your-repo"))

// or

remoteUrl("https://github.com/your-repo")
```

Additionally, DGP v2 has two [utility functions](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/blob/220922378e6c68eb148fda2ec80528a1b81478c9/dokka-runners/dokka-gradle-plugin/src/main/kotlin/engine/parameters/DokkaSourceLinkSpec.kt#L82-L96)
for setting the URL:

```kotlin
fun remoteUrl(@Language("http-url-reference") value: String): Unit =
    remoteUrl.set(URI(value))

// and

fun remoteUrl(value: Provider<String>): Unit =
    remoteUrl.set(value.map(::URI))
```

#### External documentation links configuration

The `externalDocumentationLinks` API changed, using the `register()` method 
to define each link and aligning with Gradle DSL conventions.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
dokka {

>     this: DokkaExtension

Reviewer 4: It looks like something is broken in the snippet. The old one was:
```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtml {
    dokkaSourceSets {
        configureEach {
            externalDocumentationLink {
                url = URL("https://example.com/docs/")
                packageListUrl = File("/path/to/package-list").toURI().toURL()
            }
        }
    }
}
```

with Gradle's incremental build system and improves task input tracking.

Previous configuration:

In DGP v1, Dokka plugins were configured manually using JSON. This approach caused issues with [registering task inputs](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/incremental_build.html) 
for Gradle up-to-date checks.

Here is an example of the deprecated JSON-based configuration for the [Dokka Versioning plugin](https://kotl.in/dokka-versioning-plugin):

```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule {
    pluginsMapConfiguration.set(
        mapOf(
            "org.jetbrains.dokka.versioning.VersioningPlugin" to """
                { "version": "1.2", "olderVersionsDir": "$projectDir/dokka-docs" }
                """.trimIndent()
        )
    )
}
```

New configuration:

DGP v2 replaces the JSON-based configuration with a type-safe DSL that is compatible with incremental builds.
Use the `pluginsConfiguration{}` block to configure Dokka plugins in a type-safe way:

```kotlin
dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration {
        versioning {
            version.set("1.2")
            olderVersionsDir.set(projectDir.resolve("dokka-docs"))
        }
    }
}
```

> ### Configure custom Dokka plugins

Reviewer 4: Why do we promote the feature in the migration guide? I expect the minimal required amount of material to move projects from DGP v1 to DGP v2.

Author: This is part of the feedback we got to update the migration guide. You can see in the [feedback issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-72053/Dokka-DGP-v2-migration-guide-feedback) the comment addressed by @adam-enko as pointed [here.](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/issues/3869)

Dokka 2.0.0 allows you to extend its functionality by configuring custom plugins, 
which enable additional processing or modifications to the documentation generation process.

To configure a custom Dokka plugin, implement a custom `DokkaPluginParametersBaseSpec` 
class in your `build.gradle.kts` file. The following example shows how to define and register a custom plugin parameter class:

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts

plugins {

>     id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.0.0-Beta"

Reviewer 4: We could drop `Beta` from version

}

val dokkaScripts = layout.projectDirectory.dir("dokka-scripts")

dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration {
        registerBinding(DokkaScriptsPluginParameters::class, DokkaScriptsPluginParameters::class)
        register<DokkaScriptsPluginParameters>("DokkaScripts") {
            scripts.from(dokkaScripts.asFileTree)
        }
    }
}

@OptIn(DokkaInternalApi::class)
abstract class DokkaScriptsPluginParameters @Inject constructor(
    name: String

> ) : DokkaPluginParametersBaseSpec(name, "ca.solostudios.dokkascript.plugin.DokkaScriptsPlugin") {

Reviewer 4: Who is `ca.solostudios`? I think we should avoid mentioning external namespaces.

DGP v2 introduces some changes in the [Gradle configuration options](dokka-gradle.md#configuration-options). In the `build.gradle.kts` file, adjust the configuration 
options according to your project setup: 

#### New top-level DSL configuration

Replace the old configuration syntax with the new top-level `dokka {}` DSL configuration. For example:

Previous configuration:

```kotlin

> tasks.withType<DokkaTask>().configureEach {

Reviewer 3: @AlejandraPedroza, @adam-enko 
Inspired by #4026, I think that it would be nice to also show here that some properties are moved from root configuration on task to `dokkaPublications.html` (like we show explicitly below for `outputDirectory`)

Currently, it's almost impossible to guess, that we split properties in two places and not just removed them.

>     dokkaSourceSets {

Reviewer 3: Here are the changes for above comment for `Previous configuration`:
```suggestion
    suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
    failOnWarning.set(true)
    dokkaSourceSets {
```

        named("main") {
            moduleName.set("Project Name")
            includes.from("README.md")
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(URL("https://example.com/src"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
            }
        }
    }
}

tasks.dokkaHtml {
    pluginConfiguration<DokkaBase, DokkaBaseConfiguration> {
        customStyleSheets.set(listOf("styles.css"))
        customAssets.set(listOf("logo.png"))
        footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
    }
}
```
 
New configuration:

Using `build.gradle.kts` files differs from using `.kt` files (such as custom plugins) 
due to the use of type-safe accessors in Kotlin DSL. 

<tabs group="dokka-configuration">
<tab title="Gradle configuration file" group-key="gradle">

```kotlin

// build.gradle.kts

dokka {
    moduleName.set("Project Name")

>     dokkaSourceSets.main {

Reviewer 3: Here are the changes for above comment for `New configuration`:

```suggestion
    dokkaPublications.html {
        suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
        failOnWarning.set(true)
    }
    dokkaSourceSets.main {
```

    failOnWarning.set(true)
    dokkaSourceSets {
        named("main") {
            moduleName.set("Project Name")
            includes.from("README.md")
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(URL("https://example.com/src"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
            }
        }
    }
}

tasks.dokkaHtml {
    pluginConfiguration<DokkaBase, DokkaBaseConfiguration> {
        customStyleSheets.set(listOf("styles.css"))
        customAssets.set(listOf("logo.png"))
        footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
    }
}
```
 
New configuration:

Using `build.gradle.kts` files differs from using `.kt` files (such as custom plugins) 
due to the use of type-safe accessors in Kotlin DSL. 

<tabs group="dokka-configuration">
<tab title="Gradle configuration file" group-key="gradle">

```kotlin

// build.gradle.kts

dokka {
    moduleName.set("Project Name")
    dokkaPublications.html {
        suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
        failOnWarning.set(true)
    }
    dokkaSourceSets.main {
        includes.from("README.md")
        sourceLink {
            localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))

>             remoteUrl.set(URI("https://example.com/src"))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
```

here it'd be convenient to use the helper function, because URI requires an import.

            remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
        }
    }
    pluginsConfiguration.html {
        customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
        customAssets.from("logo.png")
        footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Kotlin file" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin

// CustomPlugin.kt

class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
    override fun apply(project: Project) {
        project.extensions.configure<DokkaExtension> {

            dokkaPublications.named("html") {
                suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
                failOnWarning.set(true)
            }

            dokkaSourceSets.named("main") {
                includes.from("README.md")
                sourceLink {
                    localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
                    remoteUrl.set(URI("https://example.com/src"))
                    remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
                }
            }

>             pluginsConfiguration.named<org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.plugins.DokkaHtmlPluginParameters>("pluginsConfiguration") {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            pluginsConfiguration.named<org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.plugins.DokkaHtmlPluginParameters>("html") {
```

> // CustomPlugin.kt
> 
> class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
>     override fun apply(project: Project) {
>         project.extensions.configure<DokkaExtension> {
> 
>             dokkaPublications.named("html") {
>                 suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
>                 failOnWarning.set(true)
>             }
> 
>             dokkaSourceSets.named("main") {
>                 includes.from("README.md")
>                 sourceLink {
>                     localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
>                     remoteUrl.set(URI("https://example.com/src"))
>                     remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
>                 }
>             }
> 
>             pluginsConfiguration.named<org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.plugins.DokkaHtmlPluginParameters>("pluginsConfiguration") {
>                 customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
>                 customAssets.from("logo.png")
>                 footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
>             }
>         }
>     }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: suggestion: add the imports

````suggestion
// CustomPlugin.kt

import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.plugins.DokkaHtmlPluginParameters

class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
    override fun apply(project: Project) {
        project.extensions.configure<DokkaExtension> {

            dokkaPublications.named("html") {
                suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
                failOnWarning.set(true)
            }

            dokkaSourceSets.named("main") {
                includes.from("README.md")
                sourceLink {
                    localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
                    remoteUrl.set(URI("https://example.com/src"))
                    remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
                }
            }

            pluginsConfiguration.named<DokkaHtmlPluginParameters>("html") {
                customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
                customAssets.from("logo.png")
                footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
            }
        }
    }
}
```
````

Reviewer: Thinking about it, this example should also be updated so it doesn't assume the sam-with-receiver plugin is used. I'll make another suggestion...

</tab>
</tabs>

#### Visibility settings

The `documentedVisibilities` property has changed from `Visibility.PUBLIC` to `VisibilityModifier.Public`.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.dokka.DokkaConfiguration.Visibility

// ...
documentedVisibilities.set(
    setOf(Visibility.PUBLIC)
) 
```

New configuration:

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier

// ...
documentedVisibilities.set(
    setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public)
)

// OR

documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
```

> Additionally, DGP v2 has a [utility function](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/blob/220922378e6c68eb148fda2ec80528a1b81478c9/dokka-runners/dokka-gradle-plugin/src/main/kotlin/engine/parameters/HasConfigurableVisibilityModifiers.kt#L14-L16) for adding documented visibilities:

Reviewer: Optional suggestion: It might be better to pin the link to a tag, rather than git hash. It's a bit neater and tidier, and helps clarify what version the guide is written for.

```suggestion
Additionally, DGP v2 has a [utility function](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/blob/v2.0.0/dokka-runners/dokka-gradle-plugin/src/main/kotlin/engine/parameters/HasConfigurableVisibilityModifiers.kt#L14-L16) for adding documented visibilities:
```

```kotlin
fun documentedVisibilities(vararg visibilities: VisibilityModifier): Unit =
    documentedVisibilities.set(visibilities.asList()) 
```

#### Source links

Allow users to navigate from the generated documentation to the corresponding source code in a remote repository. 
To configure source links, use the `dokkaSourceSets.main{}` block.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
    tasks.withType<DokkaTask>().configureEach {
    dokkaSourceSets {
        named("main") {
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(URL("https://github.com/your-repo"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
            }
        }
    }
}
```

New configuration:

Using `build.gradle.kts` files differs from using `.kt` files (such as custom plugins)
due to the use of type-safe accessors in Kotlin DSL.

<tabs group="dokka-configuration">
<tab title="Gradle configuration file" group-key="gradle">

```kotlin

// build.gradle.kts

dokka {

>     moduleName.set("Project Name")

Reviewer 3: probably we don't need `moduleName` and `includes` in this sample (and in `CustomPlugin.kt`) as they are not present in `old configuration`

    dokkaSourceSets.main {
        includes.from("README.md")
        sourceLink {
            localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
            remoteUrl.set(URI("https://github.com/your-repo"))
            remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Kotlin file" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin

// CustomPlugin.kt

> class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
>     override fun apply(project: Project) {
>         project.extensions.configure<DokkaExtension> {
>             dokkaSourceSets.named("main") {
>                 includes.from("README.md")
>                 sourceLink {
>                     localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
>                     remoteUrl.set(URI("https://example.com/src"))
>                     remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
>                 }
>             }
>         }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension

abstract class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
    override fun apply(project: Project) {
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")

        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension::class.java) { dokka ->
            dokka.dokkaSourceSets.named("main") { dss ->
                dss.includes.from("README.md")
                dss.sourceLink {
                    it.localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
                    it.remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
                    it.remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

same fix as [above](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/pull/4025/files#r1973871087)

In DGP v2, the configuration for single-module and multi-module projects is now unified under the `dokka {}` block. 
Instead of configuring `dokkaHtml` and `dokkaHtmlMultiModule` tasks separately, you now specify settings inside the `dokkaPublications.html {}` block.

For multi-module projects, you can set the output directory and include additional files (such as `README.md`) in the `dokka {}` block of the root project.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule {
    outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
    includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
}
```

New configuration:

Using `build.gradle.kts` files differs from using `.kt` files (such as custom plugins)
due to the use of type-safe accessors in Kotlin DSL.

<tabs group="dokka-configuration">
<tab title="Gradle configuration file" group-key="gradle">

```kotlin

// build.gradle.kts

dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html {
        outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
        includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Kotlin file" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin

// CustomPlugin.kt

> class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
>     override fun apply(project: Project) {
>         project.extensions.configure<DokkaExtension> {
>             dokkaPublications.named("html") {
>                 outputDirectory.set(project.rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
>                 includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
>             }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension

abstract class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
    override fun apply(project: Project) {
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")
        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension::class.java) { dokka ->
            dokka.dokkaPublications.named("html") { html ->
                html.outputDirectory.set(project.rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
                html.includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
            }
        }
```

DGP v2 introduces some changes in the [Gradle configuration options](dokka-gradle.md#configuration-options). In the `build.gradle.kts` file, adjust the configuration 
options according to your project setup: 

#### New top-level DSL configuration

> Replace the old configuration syntax with the new top-level `dokka {}` DSL configuration. For example:

Author: No special reason. I removed it.

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier

// ...
documentedVisibilities.set(
    setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public)
)

// OR

documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
```

Additionally, DGP v2 has a [utility function](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/blob/v2.0.0/dokka-runners/dokka-gradle-plugin/src/main/kotlin/engine/parameters/HasConfigurableVisibilityModifiers.kt#L14-L16) for adding documented visibilities:

```kotlin
fun documentedVisibilities(vararg visibilities: VisibilityModifier): Unit =
    documentedVisibilities.set(visibilities.asList()) 
```

#### Source links

Allow users to navigate from the generated documentation to the corresponding source code in a remote repository. 
To configure source links, use the `dokkaSourceSets.main{}` block.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
    tasks.withType<DokkaTask>().configureEach {
    dokkaSourceSets {
        named("main") {
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(URL("https://github.com/your-repo"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
            }
        }
    }
}
```

New configuration:

> Using `build.gradle.kts` files differs from using `.kt` files (such as custom plugins)

Author: Changed them all (:

to define each link and aligning with Gradle DSL conventions.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtml {
    dokkaSourceSets {
        configureEach {
            externalDocumentationLink {
                url = URL("https://example.com/docs/")
                packageListUrl = File("/path/to/package-list").toURI().toURL()
            }
        }
    }
}
```

New configuration:

```kotlin
dokka {
    dokkaSourceSets.configureEach {
        externalDocumentationLinks.register("example-docs") {
            url("https://example.com/docs/")
            packageListUrl("https://example.com/docs/package-list")
        }
    }
}
```
  
#### Custom assets

The [`customAssets`](dokka-html.md#customize-assets) property now uses collections of files ([`FileCollection`)](https://docs.gradle.org/8.10/userguide/lazy_configuration.html#working_with_files_in_lazy_properties) instead of lists (`var List<File>`).

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
customAssets = listOf(file("example.png"), file("example2.png"))
```

New configuration:

```kotlin
customAssets.from("example.png", "example2.png")
```

#### Output directory

> Use the `dokka {}` block to specify the output directory for the generated Dokka documentation.

Author: I changed them all to start with active instruction. Thanks for the suggestion.

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtml {
    outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokkaDir"))
}
```

New configuration:

```kotlin
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html {
        outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokkaDir"))
    }
}
```

#### Output directory for additional files

> In DGP v2, the configuration for single-module and multi-module projects is now unified under the `dokka {}` block. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In DGP v2, the configuration for single-module and multi-module projects is unified under the `dokka {}` block. 
```

> Instead of configuring `dokkaHtml` and `dokkaHtmlMultiModule` tasks separately, you now specify settings inside the `dokkaPublications.html {}` block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of configuring `dokkaHtml` and `dokkaHtmlMultiModule` tasks separately, specify settings inside the `dokkaPublications.html {}` block.
```

> For multi-module projects, you can set the output directory and include additional files (such as `README.md`) in the `dokka {}` block of the root project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For multi-module projects, set the output directory and include additional files (such as `README.md`) in the `dokka {}` block of the root project.
```

Previous configuration:

```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule {
    outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
    includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
}
```

New configuration:

> Using `build.gradle.kts` files differs from using `.kt` files (such as custom plugins)

Reviewer 2: same comment as before

due to the use of type-safe accessors in Kotlin DSL.

<tabs group="dokka-configuration">
<tab title="Gradle configuration file" group-key="gradle">

```kotlin

// build.gradle.kts

dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html {
        outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
        includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Kotlin file" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin

// CustomPlugin.kt

import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension

abstract class CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project> {
    override fun apply(project: Project) {
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")
        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension::class.java) { dokka ->
            dokka.dokkaPublications.named("html") { html ->
                html.outputDirectory.set(project.rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
                html.includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
            }
        }
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Configure Dokka plugins

> Configuring built-in Dokka plugins with JSON has been deprecated in favor of a type-safe DSL. This change improves compatibility 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuring built-in Dokka plugins with JSON is deprecated in favor of a type-safe DSL. This change improves compatibility 
```

with Gradle's incremental build system and improves task input tracking.

Previous configuration:

In DGP v1, Dokka plugins were configured manually using JSON. This approach caused issues with [registering task inputs](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/incremental_build.html) 
for Gradle up-to-date checks.

Here is an example of the deprecated JSON-based configuration for the [Dokka Versioning plugin](https://kotl.in/dokka-versioning-plugin):

```kotlin
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule {
    pluginsMapConfiguration.set(
        mapOf(
            "org.jetbrains.dokka.versioning.VersioningPlugin" to """
                { "version": "1.2", "olderVersionsDir": "$projectDir/dokka-docs" }
                """.trimIndent()
        )
    )
}
```

New configuration:

> DGP v2 replaces the JSON-based configuration with a type-safe DSL that is compatible with incremental builds. See the 

Reviewer 2: hmm This part is somewhat redundant with the beginning of the section - could we merge the two?

configuration of [Dokka's versioning plugin example](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/examples/gradle-v2/versioning-multimodule-example). 

Use the `pluginsConfiguration{}` block to configure Dokka plugins in a type-safe way:

```kotlin
dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration {
        versioning {
            version.set("1.2")
            olderVersionsDir.set(projectDir.resolve("dokka-docs"))
        }
    }
}
```

> Dokka 2.0.0 allows you to extend its functionality by [configuring custom plugins](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/blob/ae3840edb4e4afd7b3e3768a5fddfe8ec0e08f31/examples/gradle-v2/custom-dokka-plugin-example/demo-library/build.gradle.kts),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dokka 2.0.0 allows you to extend its functionality by [configuring custom plugins](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/blob/ae3840edb4e4afd7b3e3768a5fddfe8ec0e08f31/examples/gradle-v2/custom-dokka-plugin-example/demo-library/build.gradle.kts).
```

> which enable additional processing or modifications to the documentation generation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom plugins enable additional processing or modifications to the documentation generation process.
```

Reviewer 2: (suggestion)
just breaking up the sentence - might be more readable this way - but the previous was good as well - whichever you prefer

#### Multi-module projects without convention plugins

> If you do not use convention plugins in your project, you can still share Dokka configurations by directly configuring each module. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your project doesn't use convention plugins, you can still share Dokka configurations by directly configuring each module. 
```

> This involves manually setting up the shared configuration in each module's `build.gradle.kts` file. While less centralized, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This involves manually setting up the shared configuration in each module's `build.gradle.kts` file. While this approach is less centralized, 
```

> this approach avoids the need for additional setups like convention plugins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it avoids the need for additional setups like convention plugins.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: It might be beneficial to smoothen the transition here a bit

In the previous paragraph we are talking about that we no longer need convention plugins but then we describe how to still use convention plugins

It might be beneficial to add something like: "However, if you prefer using convention plugins... "

> Otherwise, you can also share the Dokka configuration in multi-module projects by setting up the `buildSrc` directory and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can share the Dokka configuration in multi-module projects by creating a convention plugin in the `buildSrc` directory and 
```

> the convention plugin, and then applying the plugin to your modules (subprojects).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
, and then applying the plugin to your modules (subprojects).
```

Dokka can aggregate the documentation from multiple modules (subprojects) into a single output or publication.

As [explained](#apply-the-convention-plugin-to-your-modules),

> you have to apply the Dokka plugin to all documentable subprojects before aggregating the documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
apply the Dokka plugin to all documentable subprojects before aggregating the documentation.
```

> Aggregation in DGP v2 now uses the `dependencies {}` block instead of tasks and can be added in any `build.gradle.kts` file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Aggregation in DGP v2 uses the `dependencies {}` block instead of tasks and can be added in any `build.gradle.kts` file. 
```

documentation in any location.

Previous aggregation directory:

In DGP v1, aggregated documentation was placed in a collapsed directory structure. 
For example, given a project with an aggregation in `:turbo-lib` and a nested subproject `:turbo-lib:maths`, 
the generated documentation would be placed under:

```text
turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/maths/
```

New aggregation directory:

DGP v2 ensures each subproject has a unique directory by retaining the full project structure. The same aggregated documentation 
now follows this structure:

```text
turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/turbo-lib/maths/
```

This change prevents subprojects with the same name from clashing. However, because the directory has changed, external links 
may become outdated and cause `404` errors.

#### Revert to the previous directory behavior

If your project depends on the old directory structure, you can revert this behavior by manually specifying the module directory.
Add the following configuration to the `build.gradle.kts` file of each subproject:

```kotlin
// /turbo-lib/maths/build.gradle.kts

plugins {
    id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}

dokka {
    // Overrides the module directory to match the V1 structure

>     modulePath.convention("maths")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    modulePath.set("maths")
```

turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/turbo-lib/maths/
```

This change prevents subprojects with the same name from clashing. However, since the directory structure has changed, external links 
may become outdated, potentially causing `404` errors.

#### Revert to the DGP v1 directory behavior

If your project depends on the directory structure used in DGP v1, you can revert this behavior by manually specifying the module directory.
Add the following configuration to the `build.gradle.kts` file of each subproject:

```kotlin
// /turbo-lib/maths/build.gradle.kts

plugins {
    id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}

dokka {
    // Overrides the module directory to match the V1 structure
    modulePath.set("maths")
}
```

### Generate documentation with the updated task

DGP v2 has renamed the Gradle tasks that generate the API documentation.

Task in DGP v1:

```text
./gradlew dokkaHtml

// or

./gradlew dokkaHtmlMultiModule
```

Task in DGP v2:

```text
./gradlew :dokkaGenerate
```

The `dokkaGenerate` task generates the API documentation in the `build/dokka/` directory.

In the DGP v2 version, the `dokkaGenerate` task name works for both single and multi-module projects. You can use different tasks

> to generate output in HTML, Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc. For more information, see the next section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to generate output in HTML, Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc. For more information, see [Select documentation output format](#select-documentation-output-format).
```

Reviewer 2: just to have a direct link in case we modify it later for some reason.

}
```

### Change directory of aggregated documentation

> When DGP aggregates modules, each subproject has its own subdirectory within the aggregated docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When DGP aggregates modules, each subproject has its own subdirectory within the aggregated documentation.
```

In DGP v2, the aggregation mechanism has been updated to better align with Gradle conventions. 

> DGP v2 now preserves the full subproject directory to prevent conflicts when aggregating 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It preserves the full subproject directory to prevent conflicts when aggregating 
```

Author: As the last noun mentioned is "Gradle conventions", I'll leave DGP v2 instead of "it" for better clarity.

documentation in any location.

Previous aggregation directory:

In DGP v1, aggregated documentation was placed in a collapsed directory structure. 
For example, given a project with an aggregation in `:turbo-lib` and a nested subproject `:turbo-lib:maths`, 

> the generated documentation would be placed under:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the generated documentation was placed under:
```

```text
turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/maths/
```

> New aggregation directory:

Reviewer 2: like before and for all mentions - I think it would be more future-proof to say : 

DGP v1 aggregation directory:

DGP v2 aggregation directory:

instead of old and new

DGP v2 ensures each subproject has a unique directory by retaining the full project structure. The same aggregated documentation 
now follows this structure:

```text
turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/turbo-lib/maths/
```

> This change prevents subprojects with the same name from clashing. However, because the directory has changed, external links 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change prevents subprojects with the same name from clashing. However, since the directory structure has changed, external links 
```

> may become outdated and cause `404` errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
may become outdated, potentially causing `404` errors.
```

       id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.0.0"

       // Generates Javadoc documentation
       id("org.jetbrains.dokka-javadoc") version "2.0.0"

       // Keeping both plugin IDs generates both formats
   }
   ```

2. Run the corresponding Gradle task.

Here is a list of the plugin `id` and Gradle task that correspond to each format:

|             | **HTML**                       | **Javadoc**                         | **Both**                          |
|-------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Plugin `id` | `id("org.jetbrains.dokka")`    | `id("org.jetbrains.dokka-javadoc")` | Use both HTML and Javadoc plugins |
| Gradle task | `./gradlew :dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` | `./gradlew :dokkaGeneratePublicationJavadoc`   | `./gradlew :dokkaGenerate`        |

> The `dokkaGenerate` task generates documentation in all available formats based on the applied plugins. 
> If both the HTML and Javadoc plugins are applied, you can choose to generate only HTML by running the `dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` task, 
> or only Javadoc by running the `dokkaGeneratePublicationJavadoc` task.
> 
{style="tip"}

> 

Reviewer 2: ## Finish up your migration

In the title I know it wasn't updated, but would something like:  "Finalize migration" or "Finalize your migration" work?

> * Explore more [DGP v2 project examples](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/examples/gradle-v2). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Explore more DGP v2 project examples](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/examples/gradle-v2). 
```

Reviewer 2: (suggestion)
Since all other links are the entire line
